Merge changelog for v47.0.0 to `#release` (#19170)
ckeditor/ckeditor5: CHANGELOG.md

Three features are available in this early access phase:

* **Chat:** a conversational AI for dynamic, multi-turn interactions that support context setting and model selection.
* **Quick actions:** one-click transformations and instant insights for selected text.
* **Review:** automatic checks for grammar, tone, and style with in-editor suggestions.

Each feature is powered by our state-of-the-art AI service, available in the Cloud today and coming soon for on-premises deployments. This makes CKEditor AI a true plug-and-play solution that works out of the box, without months of custom development.

CKEditor AI is available as part of our **free trial** in early access.

#### Long-term Support (⭐)

We are introducing the **CKEditor 5 LTS (Long-term Support) Edition**, giving teams up to 3 years of stability with guaranteed updates.

The first LTS release is **v47.0.0** (October 2025). It will receive **6 months of active development** with new features and fixes, then **2.5 years of maintenance** with security and critical compatibility updates.

> For **v47.x**, the Maintenance phase starts in **April 2026**. From then, updates in the v47.x line will be available only under a **commercial LTS Edition license**. Other integrators should upgrade to **v48.x**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For **v47.x**, the Maintenance phase starts in **April 2026**. From then, the next versions in the v47.x line will be available only under a **commercial LTS Edition license**. Therefore, starting in April, integrators without an LTS license should migrate to v48.x (the next regular release).
```

If you need long-term stability, [contact sales](https://ckeditor.com/contact-sales/) or read more about [CKEditor 5 LTS Edition](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/getting-started/setup/using-lts-edition.html).

#### Other improvements and fixes

This release also brings several smaller but important enhancements and fixes:

> * **Widgets:** the ****default `Tab`/`Shift+Tab` navigation now works better inside nested editables, improving usability. This change is also reflected in the editor’s current widgets (like tables), leading to more intuitive keyboard navigation.

Reviewer 2: What is this `****`? Is it some placeholder?

### Bug fixes

* **[engine](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-engine)**: The [`markerToHighlight()`](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/api/module_engine_conversion_downcasthelpers-DowncastHelpers.html#function-markerToHighlight) converter did not clone `view` config if passed as plain object leading to incorrect behavior. This affects only custom plugins that used this converter in the described way. Closes [#19105](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5/issues/19105).
* **[engine](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-engine)**: The [bubbling events](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/framework/deep-dive/event-system.html#listening-to-bubbling-events) now trigger event callbacks according to the registered priorities even if multiple custom contexts are provided. See [#19083](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5/issues/19083).

> * **[link](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-link)**: The link manual decorators are no longer lost when caption is added to an image. Closes [#19024](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5/issues/19024).

Author: ```suggestion
* **[export-inline-styles](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-export-inline-styles)**: Fix specificity calculation to handle `:where()` selectors correctly.
* **[link](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-link)**: The link manual decorators are no longer lost when caption is added to an image. Closes [#19024](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5/issues/19024).
```
